
=head1 NAME

ntvcached - NexTrieve caching server

=head1 SYNPOSIS

 ntvcached [C<-?>] [C<-V>]
           [C<-L> logfile]
           [C<-u> user] [C<-l> listen-depth]
           C<-A> addr C<-P> port C<-F> cache-cfg.xml

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvcached> implements a nextrieve caching server.  This is a daemon
that is located between a client and a nextrieve search server.

It makes no difference to a client whether the client is communicating
with a nextrieve search server or a nextrieve caching server.
The only difference is one of efficiency, as the caching server holds
result lists for a while.
Thus, if the client uses "page next" or "page previous", for example, the
caching server can provide results without loading the search server at
all.

Like the B<ntvsearchd> nextrieve search server, B<ntvcached>
will listen on the nominated address/port pair
for incoming connections.

It will accept a stream of incoming queries in XML form from each
connection, and respond with results ("hitlists") in XML form.

A definition of what the XML for a query looks like
can be found ###ntvqueryxml###.

A definition of what the XML for the result list looks like
can be found ###ntvhitlistxml###.

The operation of the caching server is controlled by the C<-F> cache-cfg.xml
parameter.  A definition of the content of a caching configuration 
file an be found ###ntvcachecfgxml###.  A short functional summary
can be found in the following section.

=head2 Caching Server Configuration File

B<ntvcached> can operate on one or more I<physical> text indexes.
A physical text index is simply a directory in which there are is a collection
of *.ntv files.

These physical text indexes can be on remote machines,
with file systems that are not directly accessible.
Each of these physical text indexes is assumed to be
served by one or more B<ntvsearchd> nextrieve search servers, and the
machine addresses and ports of these servers are found in the caching
configuration file.

In addition, B<ntvcached> allows the use of multiple
"logical" text indexes inside single physical text index.
A "logical" text index is simply defined to be a constraint applied
to a search on the physical text index.

If there are many rather small text indexes that are wanted to be created
and searched, it is frequently more effective to create a single
physical text index containing all the documents from all the "logical"
indexes, and the logical indexes are discriminated using a simple
constraint.  The constraint is normally just a single flag value, one
flag per different logical text index.

B<ntvcached> understands how to modify any user-specified constraint
that arrives in a query to augment it with the extra constraint required
to search within particular logical text index.  The constraint
information to apply is found in the caching configuration file.

=head2 Caching Server Signal Operations

While B<ntvcached> is running, it is possible to perform two
operations using signals.

=over

=item kill C<-HUP>

B<ntvcached> will print its state to the logfile.  The state
of the caching server includes the number of clients currently attached
and their outstanding requests.  It includes the state of each nextrieve
server and any outstanding requests on each.  It also includes the number
of entries in the caching server's cache, the number of client requests served,
and the number of those requests that were served directly from the cache.

=item kill C<-USR1>

The caching server will zero out or "flush" its cache.

=back

=head2 Caching Server Automatic Operations

When B<ntvcached> is performing normal operations it may notice
that a particular nextrieve search server has "gone away", either due to a
system failure or due to the fact that the server has been simply
killed to use machine resources for some other task.

In that case, any queries that were being waited on (if any) from that
nextrieve server are re-distributed to other servers, the offending
server is marked as "in error", a message is logged,
and processing continues.
If the caching server system
is saturated, the nextrieve server(s) marked "in error" are periodically
retried so that if they are re-started they start serving requests again
automatically with no other user-intervention required.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-L> logfile

I<logfile> explicitly overrides any I<logfile> line in a resource file
and any NTV_ERRORLOG environment variable.

=item C<-A> address, C<-P> port

Specify the machine address and port to listen on for incoming connections.

=item C<-?>

Write extended help information to standard output and exit.

=item C<-V>

Write version information to standard output and exit.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

A list of diagnostics should go here.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item NTV_RESOURCE

The location of the resource file describing the text index.
Can be overridden by the C<-R> option.

=item NTV_ERRORLOG

Where to log error messages.
Overridden by a B<logfile> line in the resource file,
and C<-L> option.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

=head1 BUGS

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvindex(1), ntvsearch(1), ntvqueryxml(5), ntvhitlistxml(5).
