
=head1 NAME

ntvdocfilter - NexTrieve DOC file filter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ntvdocfilter [-f fnameattr] [-t titleattr] [-T titlett] [-Dr]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvdocfilter> is a simple shell script that expects a series of filenames
on stdin, each representing the name of a file containing a Microsoft Word
document, and produces on stdout XML suitable for passing to ntvindex.

Each DOC file encountered is emitted in XML as a separate document
with associated attributes.

The freely available "antiword" must be installed for ntvdocfilter to
work.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-f> fnameattr

The name of the file being processed is emitted as the "fnameattr" attribute.

=item C<-t> titleattr

The title of the DOC file is emitted as the "titleattr" attribute.  Note that
the title is simply taken to be the first line of text.

=item C<-T> titlett

The title of the DOC file is emitted as a <titlett> container in the
text of the document.  Note that the title is simply taken to be the first
line of text.

=item C<-D>

A <ntv:docseq> container will be generated surrounding the filter output.
This enables the output to be sent directly to ntvindex.

=item C<-h>

Print some help information.

=item C<-r>

Operate in "raw" mode.  The content of a single document is expected on stdin
(rather than filenames); it will be converted to UTF-8 and output to
stdout.  No attributes or text types will be generated.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvmailfilter(1), ntvpdffilter(1), ntvhtmlfilter(1)
