
=head1 NAME

ntvhtmlfilter - NexTrieve HTML file filter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ntvhtmlfilter [-f fnameattr] [-t titleattr] [-T titlett]
                [-l maxlen] [-e defencoding] [-DFhr]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvhtmlfilter> expects a series of filenames on stdin, each representing
the name of a file containing HTML, and produces on
stdout XML suitable for passing to ntvindex.

Each HTML file encountered is emitted in XML as a separate document
with associated attributes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-f> fnameattr

The name of the file being processed is emitted as the "fnameattr" attribute.

=item C<-t> titleattr

The title of the HTML file is emitted as the "titleattr" attribute.

=item C<-T> titlett

The title of the HTML file is emitted as a <titlett> container in the
text of the document.

=item C<-l> maxlen

The length of the title attribute is limited to at most I<maxlen> characters.

=item C<-e> defencoding

A character encoding is specified that will be applied when none is
otherwise given.  See also the C<-F> option.

=item C<-D>

A <ntv:docseq> container will be generated surrounding the filter output.
This enables the output to be sent directly to ntvindex.

=item C<-F>

A "force" flag that indicates that content with an unknown encoding should
be forced to be the default encoding.  Normally such content is dropped.

=item C<-h>

Print some help information.

=item C<-r>

Operate in "raw" mode.  The HTML of a single document is expected on stdin
(rather than filenames); it will be converted to UTF-8 and output to
stdout.  No attributes or text types will be generated.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvmailfilter(1), ntvpdffilter(1), ntvdocfilter(1)
