
=head1 NAME

ntvindexerxml -- XML format of ntvindex input

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Information submitted to B<ntvindex> to be incorporated into a nextrieve
text index is presented in XML form.
The DTD describing the format of this XML
can be found ###ntvdtds###.

A nextrieve indexing stream is implemented as an <ntv:docseq> container.
There are a number of optional nested
elements in this container specifying documents (attributes and text)
to be indexed.

Each document to be indexed is enclosed in a <document> container.  Within
that, all attributes to applied to the document are collected in an
<attributes> container, and all text to be indexed is enclosed in
a <text> container.  This <text> container can have nested elements
representing text of different "types".

As an example, consider the following:

    TABLESTART
    <ntv:docseq xmlns:ntv="http://www.nextrieve.com/1.0">

        <document>
            <attributes>
                <attr1>value1</attr1>
                <attr2>value2</attr2>
            </attributes>
            <text>
                Normal document text.
                <title>
                    Text in the document title -- a special text type.
                    that must be declared in the resource file.
                </title>
                More normal document text.
            </text>
        </document>

        <document>
            <!- the content of a second document... -->
        </document>

    </ntv:docseq>TABLEEND

=head2 <document>

Each <document> container encloses all the information for a single
document that is to be indexed.  This consists of attributes to be
applied, and text to be indexed.

=head3 <attributes>

The <attributes> container within a <document> collects all the
attribute information to be applied to a document.

A document attribute is a name/value pair, where the allowable
names and types are declared in the resource file for the text index
using <attribute> elements.

The name/value pair for each attribute to apply is specified as:

    <name>value</name>

If a particular attribute is declared as a "flag" type attribute, its
only legal values are 0 and non-zero.  If the attribute is not specified,
it is automatically given a value of "0" (off) for that document.
If it is specified, it can have one of the following forms:

=over

=item <B<attr>>0</B<attr>>

Off.

=item <B<attr>>1</B<attr>>

=item <B<attr>/>

=item <B<attr>></B<attr>>

On

=back

If a given attribute is declared as 'key="key-unique"', it should be noted
that if a document is presented having this attribute set to the same value
as a document already existing in the text index, the I<existing document
will be automatically marked as deleted>.

Also, if a given attribute is marked as possibly having multiple values
for a single document (ie, "nvals='*'" is used in the <attribute>
declaration in the resource file), the multiple values are specified
by simply repeating the <attrname>value</attrname> container as
required.

=head3 <text>

The text for a document is presented in a <text> container.  Text present
at the top-level of this container is indexed as "default" text.  It
is possible to have other areas of text, "types" of text, specially
marked so they can be searched separately.

Each "texttype" is declared in the resource file for the text index
using <texttype name="I<ttname>"/> elements.  For each I<ttname>
defined in this way, it is possible to have a nested container or
containers of the same name in the <text> container of the document.

Eg, with a declaration of:

    <texttype name="title"/>

in the resource file, it is possible to have a document containing:

    <document>
	<text>
	default text.
	<title>searchable text in the title.</title>
	more default text.
    </document>

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvindex(1), ntvresourcefile(5)
