
=head1 NAME

ntvopt - Optimize a nextrieve text index for searching

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ntvopt [--tempdir=tmpdir] [--nwaymerge=n] [--opt=n] idxdir

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvopt> optimizes a nextrieve text index found in I<idxdir> for
later searching.  This operation is recommended if the text index is large,
as it will reduce the number of disk seeks for typical searches.

To perform the optimizing operation, B<ntvopt> needs to have enough
space for approximately I<two more> copies of the ref*.ntv files found
in I<idxdir> (one copy is a working copy, another copy is the final
destination copy).

The original *.ntv files under I<idxdir> are not modified by this operation,
but I<ntvopt> will leave several files named '*-opt.ntv' in I<idxdir>
after its operation.  To use this "optimized" copy of the text index,
it is suggested that you use the small "ntvidx-useopt.sh" shell script.
This shell script will rename the current *.ntv files to have names
suffixed with "-orig.ntv", and then rename the "-opt.ntv" suffixed files
to become *.ntv files.

The script "ntvidx-restore.sh" will perform the reverse file-naming
operation.

If there is not enough space under I<idxdir> to hold two further copies
of the ref* files, you can use the --tempdir switch to have the
working copies placed on another disk partition.  In this way, you only
need space under I<idxdir> for approximately I<one> extra copy of the ref*
files, and space under the other partition for another working copy.

To perform its operation, B<ntvopt> will perform one or more merges of
different files.  The number of files that will be merged at one time
is, by default, 16.  This can be modified with the --nwaymerge parameter.

Finally, B<ntvopt> can be told how much memory to use for its
operations with --opt=n.  I<n> is the number of megabytes of memory to use
for its internal buffering; a default of 10 is used.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --tempdir=tmpdir

Place working copies of files under I<tmpdir> rather than I<idxdir>.

=item --nwaymerge=n

Merge I<n> files at a time rather than the default 16.

=item --opt=n

Use I<n> megabytes of memory for internal buffering.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvsearch(1), ntvsearchd(1), ntvresources(5), ntvcached(1).
