
=head1 NAME

ntvpdffilter - NexTrieve PDF file filter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ntvpdffilter [-Drh] [-f fnameattr] [-t titleattr] [-T titletext] [-info]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvpdffilter> is a simple shell script that expects a series of filenames
on stdin, each representing the name of a file containing a PDF
document, and produces on stdout XML suitable for passing to ntvindex.

Each PDF file encountered is emitted in XML as a separate document
with associated attributes.

The freely available "pdftotext" must be installed for ntvpdffilter to
work.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-f> fnameattr

The name of the file being processed is emitted as the "fnameattr" attribute.

=item C<-t> titleattr

The title of the PDF file is emitted as the "titleattr" attribute.  Note that
by default the title is simply taken to be the first line of text.  See the
C<-info> option below.

=item C<-T> titlett

The title of the PDF file is emitted as a <titlett> container in the
text of the document.  Note that by default the title is simply taken
to be the first line of text.  See the C<-info> below.

=item C<-D>

A <ntv:docseq> container will be generated surrounding the filter output.
This enables the output to be sent directly to ntvindex.

=item C<-h>

Print some help information.

=item C<-r>

Operate in "raw" mode.  The content of a single document is expected on stdin
(rather than filenames); it will be converted to UTF-8 and output to
stdout.  No attributes or text types will be generated.

=item C<-info>

If required, the title text is generated using pdfinfo.  Note that the
results of pdfinfo with respect to title text are not necessarily better
than simply taking the first line of text as the title.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvmailfilter(1), ntvdocfilter(1), ntvhtmlfilter(1)
