
=head1 NAME

ntvresourcefile - NexTrieve resource file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A nextrieve I<resource file> is a simple text file containing information
in XML form about or related to a text index.

A DTD describing the resource file format can be found ###ntvdtds###.

The structure of a resource file is simple; there is an outer <ntv:resource>
container which contains a small number of other top-level containers:

=over

=item I<miscellaneous>

There are a small number of miscellaneous elements
specifying information that's generally useful
to all nextrieve products regarding this text index.

=item indexcreation

The <indexcreation> container collects all the information related to
the structure of a text index.  If any information in this section is changed,
the text index should be rebuilt with B<ntvindex> from original text sources.

=item indexing

The <indexing> container holds the information used by B<ntvindex>
as it performs indexing operations.  This is information relating
to what to do with various error conditions, etc.

=item searching

The <searching> container holds the information used by B<ntvsearch>
and B<ntvsearchd> to determine how to perform searches and how to
return results.

=item ultralite

The <ultralite> container(s) are solely used by ntvultralite, nextrieve's
HTML template filling process.

=back

All the containers are EMPTY containers, ie, no text is expected in a
container.

In summary, the top-level structure of a nextrieve resource file looks
something like this:

    TABLESTART
    <ntv:resource xmlns:ntv="http://www.nextrieve.com/1.0">

	<misc1 .../>
	<misc2 .../>
	...

	<indexcreation>
	    <index-creation-specific.../>
	    ...
	</indexcreation>

	<indexing>
	    <ntvindex-specific.../>
	    ...
	</indexing>

	<searching>
	    <nextrieve-specific.../>
	    ...
	</searching>

	<ultralite>
	    <ntvultralite-specific.../>
	    ...
	</ultralite>

    </ntv:resource> TABLEEND

The content of the resource file is discussed according to these
classifications.  Within each classification, containers are
presented in no particular order.

=head2 Miscellaneous Elements

=over

=item <B<indexdir name='I<index-directory>'>/>

I<index-directory> is the name of the directory
in which all the text-index-related
files are found.
These files all end with the suffix ".ntv".

=item <B<logfile name='I<logfile-name>'>/>

During its operation, the indexer (B<ntvindex>) or searcher (B<ntvsearch>
or B<ntvsearchd>)
may print various time-stamped messages.
These messages are printed to stderr (the standard error output) and,
if specified, to the file specified as I<logfile-name>.

=item <B<cache size="I<cachesize>">/>

A memory cache is used during indexing and during searching, to increase
performance.
This line specifies the amount of memory to allocate for the cache.
I<cachesize> is a number which can be suffixed with K, M or G indicating
kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes.  If only a number is used for I<cachesize>,
it is taken to be the size in bytes.

By default a value of 10M (10Mb) is used, but normally a much larger
value is specified, dependant somewhat on how large the index is and
how much physical memory is available on the indexing machine.
Values of 100M are not uncommon.

=back

=head2 <indexcreation> Container

The containers permitted in an <indexcreation> container are as follows:

=over

=item <B<exact [accentaction="distinct"|"merge"|"both"]>/>

=item <B<fuzzy [accentaction="distinct"|"merge"|"both"]>/>

The <exact> element indicates that the text index will contain an
"exact" part.  The <fuzzy> element indicates that the text index will contain
a fuzzy part.

With an exact index it is possible to search for words in an exact fashion.
Only words that exactly match words in a particular search query are
relevant.

With a fuzzy index it is possible to search for words in a fuzzy fashion.
Words that are I<similar> to original query words can be considered relevant.
A "fuzzy" level, specified in the search, gives an indication of the
permitted word variation.

It is possible to have both I<exact> and I<fuzzy> in the same index.  In
fact, if both are present, the accuracy and quality of fuzzy searches is
significantly improved by the information found in the exact index.

The optional I<accentaction> attribute specifies what to do with accented
characters, as defined by the <utf8data foldfilename=...> tag.

=over

=item distinct

Accented characters are "preserved".

For example, if the word "voilà"
is indexed, it can only be found in an exact index by searching for
"voilà" (with the accent).  In a fuzzy index, searching for "voilà"
will consider "voilà" to be an exact match, and "voila" (without the
accent) to be "further away".

=item merge

Accented characters are "decomposed" to their closest non-accented equivalents.

For example, if the word "voilà" is indexed, it will be stored in the index
as "voila" (no accents).  It will be found by an exact or fuzzy search for
either "voilà" or "voila", which both map automatically to a search for
"voila" (no accents).

=item both

Both the above operations are performed.

If the word "voilà" is indexed, it is stored in the index as both "voilà"
I<and> "voila".
During searching, if the word "voila" (no accent) is searched for, both
"voila" and "voilà" will therefore be found.
If the word "voilà" (accented) is searched for in an exact fashion,
only occurrences of "voilà" will be found.  A fuzzy search for
"voilà" will treat "voila" to be "further away".

In this way a search using non-accented text will find both non-accented
and accented forms of the words.  A search using explicitly accented text
will find only the accented forms that were indexed.

=back

It should be noted, however, that in the text I<preview> provided as
part of the search results, accented characters are displayed in their original
form.  The lines discussed above relate only the I<searching> of
the text as a consequence of how it was indexed.

By default, an accentaction of "both" is used for both exact and fuzzy
indexes.  It is recommended that if both an exact and fuzzy text index
are being created, that the accentaction of both is the same.

=item <B<texttype name="I<ttname>">/>

This element specifies the name of an allowable "text type".

The <text> element of a document being indexed can contain nested
containers that are indexed specially.
If the name of a nested container matches one of the allowable
texttype names (as defined with a <texttype> element),
the text contained in that container will be indexed
in a manner that makes it searchable separately.  Eg,

    <texttype name="heading"/>

allows the use of the following in the text of a document being indexed:

    TABLESTART
    <text>
        normal text.
	<heading>title text</heading>
	more normal text.
	<heading>more heading text</heading>
	more normal text.
    </text> TABLEEND

It is then possible to search the text index looking at I<only> the heading
text, for example.  It is also possible to search the text index looking
at all text, but giving text found in <heading> containers a higher weight.
By default, all text types are searched.

A discussion of search operations can be found ###ntvqueryxml###.

The number of different text types is somewhat limited -- they should be
chosen with reasonable care.

=item <B<attribute name="I<attrname>" type="flag"|"number"|"string" key="key-unique"|"key-duplicates"|"notkey" nvals="1"|"*">/>

An <attribute> element specifies
the characteristics of a particular per-document attribute.

The name of the attribute is given by I<attrname>.

Attributes for a document are presented to the indexer in the XML
input stream and are processed at the same time as the document text is
indexed.
Each attribute has a name by which it is referenced, and a value.  The
value can be one of a number of different types:

=over

=item type="flag"

The value of the attribute can be either 0 (off) or non-zero (on).
If the value of a particular flag attribute is not specified for a document,
it is taken to be "off".
Similarly, if the value of a flag attribute is explicitly specified as:

    TABLESTART
    <attrname>0</attrname> TABLEEND

the value is taken to be "off".
If the value is specified as one of:

    TABLESTART
    <attrname/>
    <attrname></attrname>
    <attrname>1</attrname> TABLEEND

the value is taken to be "on".

=item type="number"

The value of the attribute can be a non-negative number in the range
0..2147483647 inclusive.

If the value of a number attribute is not specified for a document,
the value is taken to be zero.

=item type="string"

The value of the attribute can be any string of characters.

=back

It should be noted that the values of these attributes cannot be
I<searched> in the way document text can be.  The values of these
attributes can only be:

=over

=item *

Be used as part of a I<constraint>, restricting the set of valid
documents to return for a search result.

=item *

Returned as part of search results, giving information about the
document found.

=back

The "key" parameter indicates the following characteristics of
a document attribute:

=over

=item key="key-unique"

A "key-unique" parameter implies that only one document in the text
index can have any particular attribute value.
If, during indexing, a second document is presented with an attribute
value of I<attrname> that is already associated with a document in the
index, the I<existing document is automatically marked deleted>.

=item key="key-duplicates"

A "key-duplicates" attribute will eventually allow fast retrieval of
documents when only the value of I<attrname> is specified.
In the current release of NexTrieve "key-duplicates" is accepted but is
normally only used for string attributes where there are many occurrences
of the same per-document value: a side-effect of using "key-duplicates"
is that values are "shared" amongst documents.  All documents having
the same string value all point to the same piece of text, reducing
memory requirements if the strings are generally long and duplicated.

=item key="notkey"

Attribute values are not keyed or shared in any way.

=back

The "nvals" parameter indicates if a single document can have only
at most one value of the attribute, or many:

=over

=item nvals="1"

A particular document can only have one value of this particular attribute.
A "filename" attribute is an example.

=item nvals="*"

A particular document can have several values associated with this
particular attribute.  A "keyword" or "author" attribute is a good example.
In the XML stream being indexed, the multiple values of such an attribute
are defined simply by repeating the <attrname>...</attrname> specification,
eg:

    TABLESTART
    <document>
	<attributes>
	    <attrname>value1</attrname>
	    <attrname>value2</attrname>
	    <attrname>value3</attrname>
	</attributes>
    ...
    TABLEEND

=back

These per-document attributes are reported as part of the search results
for a query.
They can also be used as part of a "constraint" in a search,
an expression built up
out of attribute names and values that restrict the set of allowable
documents returned as the result of a query.  A discussion of
constraints in nextrieve can be found ###ntvqueryxml###.

For a flag-type attribute, the only valid settings for the other
parameters are 'key="notkey" nvals="1"'.
Other variations for a flag type attribute will return an error.

=item <B<utf8data classfile="I<classfilename>" foldfile="I<foldfilename>" decompfile="I<decompfilename>">/>

This element specifies names of files,
files whose content overrides compiled-in content
of nextrieve utilities.
The functions are all related to unicode encoding.
The compiled-in content of the nextrieve utilities has been extracted
from publicly available standards datafiles CaseFolding.txt and
UnicodeData.txt.

For the file format of these files, refer to the section "UTF8 Data Files"
below.

=back

=head2 Indexing Container

The elements permitted in an <indexing> container are as follows:

=over

=item <B<unknowntext logaction="log"|"!log"|"stop" indexaction="ignore"|"default">/>

=item <B<nestedtext logaction="log"|"!log"|"stop" indexaction="ignore"|"inherit">/>

During indexing of the <text> container of a document,
it is possible for the B<ntvindex>
to find containers that are unknown or too deeply nested.  B<unknowntext>
and B<nestedtext> specify what to do in those situations.

=over

=item logaction="log"

A message is logged and indexing continues.

=item logaction="!log"

A message is not logged and indexing continues.

=item logaction="stop"

A message is logged and indexing stops.

=item indexaction="ignore"

The text contained in the offending container is simply ignored.

=item indexaction="default"

The text contained in the unknown container is indexed as if it was
part of the top level default text of the document.

=item indexaction="inherit"

If a text element is nested too deeply, the text it contains is indexed as
if it was part of its immediate parent.

=back

=item <B<unknownattrs logaction="log"|"!log"|"stop">/>

=item <B<nestedattrs logaction="log"|"!log"|"stop">/>

Similar to the <unknowntext> and <nestedtext> elements described above,
these containers specify what to do with unknown or nested elements in
the <attributes> section during indexing.

The offending elements are never indexed, but they can trigger messages
and/or termination of indexing.

=back

=head2 Searching Container

The elements permitted in a <searching> container are as follows:

=over

=item <<highlight name="I<tagname>" on="I<ontext>" off="I<offtext>">/>

If preview text is being returned in a hit list, words present
in the preview text relevant to the original search terms in the preview
are highlighted.
By default, nextrieve will surround such terms with a
<b></b> pair.
It is possible to supply alternate highlighting text using the <highlight>
element.  If name="I<tagname>" is given, nextrieve will surround words
to be hightlighted with

    TABLESTART
    <tagname>word</tagname> TABLEEND

Alternatively, if 'on="I<ontext>"' and 'off="I<offtext>"' are given, the text
"ontext" and "offtext" will be used directly to introduce and leave the
highlighted word respectively.

=item <B<hitlistxml form="long"|"short">/>

When searching, the XML for the hitlist can be returned in a "long" form
(<hitlist>...</hitlist>) or a short form (<hl>...</hl>).  The <hitlistxml>
element specifies the default if the form wanted is not specified in the
query.

If the <hitlistxml> element is not present, a default of form="long"
is applied.

=item <B<threads connector="I<nconn>" worker="I<nworker>" core="I<ncore>">/>

The <threads> element specifies
the number of threads and connections allowed in a multi-threading
B<ntvsearchd>.

I<nconn> defines the number of simultaneous client connections
allowed to B<ntvsearchd>.  If the system supports threads and the
server has been compiled with threading enabled, the request data arriving
for each connection is read by a dedicated thread, otherwise the request
data is read by a central loop.  This can be a number around 50,
for example.

I<nworker> is only relevant for an B<ntvsearchd> compiled multi-threaded.
It defines the maximum number of simultanous requests able to be
active in the server at any one time.  This can have a value similar
to I<nconn>.

I<ncore> is only relevant for an B<ntvsearchd> compiled multi-threaded.
It defines the maximum number of simultanous requests able to be
in the inner decode loop at any one time.   This is typically a small
value such as 5.

To determine if B<ntvsearchd> has been compiled multi-threaded, use the
-V option.  The number of threads and connections allowed is also printed
to the logfile by B<ntvsearchd> as the first log message after startup.

=item <B<querylog path="I<qlogpath>">/>

I<qlogpath> specifies a directory in which B<ntvsearchd> will create a
file to be used for logging all search requests.  The name of the file
is constructed automatically from the current date and time when
B<ntvsearchd> starts up.

=back

=head2 Ultralite Containers

The <ultralite> container is used by
B<ntvultralite>, nextrieve's HTML template filling application.

Different instances of B<ntvultralite> are given different values of
the environment variable B<$NTVNAME>.  The value of this variable
is used for, among other things, to locate an <ntvultralite> element
in the resource file with an attribute of name="$NTVNAME".  If this
container does not exist, B<ntvultralite> will read the "default"
container specified simply as <ntvultralite> with no "name" attribute.

The elements permitted in an <ultralite> container are as follows:

=over

=item <B<attrmap name="I<attrname>" text="I<text>">/>

Used by the <ntv-attrmap*> tag in a template.  Arbitrary HTML, specified
here as I<text>, is substituted into the template if the nominated
attribute I<attrname> is set on a particular hit.

=item <B<fuzzybutton level="I<n>" text="I<text>">/>

Used by the <ntv-ctl-fuzzyfactor> tag when it is filled with a <select>
HTML element.  The fuzzy level I<n> is given select text of I<text>.

=item <B<server name="I<host:port>">/>

If this container is present, B<ntvultralite> will communicate with the
nextrieve search
server nominated as I<host> and I<port> to perform the query.

If this container is not present, B<ntvultralite> will perform the query
directly on the text index.

=item <B<vblsub name="vblI<name>" text="I<text>">/>

=item <B<vblrange name1="vblI<name1>" name2="vblI<name2>">/>

=item <B<vbluse name="vblI<name>" type="constraint|"text" class="any"|"all|"not|"free"|"ntv-vblI<name2>">/>

A discussion of the use of "variables" in B<ntvultralite> can be found 
###ntvultralite###.

=item <B<hitlimit total="I<maxth>" displayed="I<displayed>">/>

The <hitlimit> element restricts the maximum number of total hits
and displayed hits asked for by a form to the values specified
as I<maxth> and I<displayed> respectively.

By default total="1000" and displayed="100" are applied.

=item <B<emitok value="0"|"1">/>

If present with a value of "1", ntvultralite will emit an "HTTP/1.0 200 OK"
line in the HTTP header.

=item <B<log value="0"|"1">/>

If present with a value of "1", ntvultralite will automatically create or
append to a logfile named $NTVBASE/$NTVNAME/logs/ultralite.txt.

=item <B<execallow value="0"|"1">/>

If present with a value of "1", the use of <ntv-exec> tags is
permitted in templates when ntvultralite is filling them.

=item <B<switchedtemplate keyword="I<kwd>" tempatedir="I<templatedir>">/>

A simple keyword scan is performed on the query string -- if the query string
contains the word I<kwd>, templates will be taken from the subdirectory
I<templatedir> under $NTVBASE/templates.

Note that B<switchedtemplate> is only honored if there are
no <attributetemplate> containers in the resource file.

=item <B<selectname name="I<attrname>" text="I<displayname>">/>

This maps a flag-type attribute named I<attrname> to text that will
be displayed in a select box on an HTML form.
Only required if <ntv-select> tags are used in templates.

=item <B<attributetemplate attrname="I<attrname>" templatedir="I<templatedir>">/>

A particular subdirectory under $NTVBASE/templates/ (named by
I<templatedir>) can be nominated to be
used if a particular flag-type attribute (named by I<attrname>)
has been set on the search form.
This is intended for use when there is a single attribute set per form,
set by using <ntv-select> for example.  If multiple attributes are
present, the first B<attributetemplate> element having a match on the form is
used.
The template files within this subdirectory follow the normal ntvultralite
file naming naming convention for templates.

=item <B<logicalindex name="I<idxname>">/>

If present, B<ntvultralite> will fill in an <indexname> container in the
query specifying that this logical text index is to be searched.
This is useful where there are multiple "logical" text indexes
in a single "physical" text index, managed by a nextrieve caching
server.

=back

=head2 UTF8 Data Files

As part of a <utf8data> element in the resource file:

    TABLESTART
    <utf8data classfile="classfilename"
              foldfile="foldfilename"
	      decompfile="decompfilename"/> TABLEEND
	    
up to three files can be specified whose content will replace compiled-in
content of nextrieve utilities.

=head3 classfilename

A I<classfilename> specifies a file whose content defines the
classification of unicode data.
The first line of this file gives the value (in hex) of the maximum unicode
code point of an acceptable character.
Subsequent lines give the unicode code point (in hex) of a character,
followed by a space, followed by it's nextrieve-specific classification.
This classification is a decimal number representing the sum of the following
values:

=over

=item 1

The character is an alpha character.

=item 2

The character is a digit.

=item 4

The character is an accented character.

=item 8

The character is equivalent to a space.

=item 16

The character is a control character, and will be replaced by a space during
indexing.

=back

Any characters whose codes are not present in the utf8class.txt file
are given a nextrieve classification value of zero -- ie, they will be
treated as punctuation.

=head3 foldfilename

A I<foldfilename> specifies a file whose content defines the
case-folding of unicode data.  This information is used to map
words containing characters differing in case to the same word in
the index.

Each line of the file should start
with the unicode code point (in hex) of an "alpha" type character followed
by a space, then followed by a space-separated sequence of unicode code
points (in hex) of the character's lower-case equivalent.  Normally there
is just one entry in this sequence.  Accents should be preserved with
this transformation.

=head3 decompfilename

A I<decompfilename> specifies a file whose content defines the
decomposition of an accented character to a non-accented form.

Each line of the file should start with the unicode code point (in hex) of
an accented (or decomposable) character, followed by a space and a
space-separated sequence of unicode code points (in hex) of the decomposition.
Accents should be removed in this transformation.

Note that it is possible to decompose the unicode code point for 1/4,
for example, into the sequence "1", "/", and "4".

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvsearch(1), ntvsearchd(1), ntvindex(1), ntvultralite(1), ntvcached(1).
