
=head1 NAME

ntvsearch - NexTrieve search engine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 ntvsearch [-?] [-V]
           [-R resfile] [-I indexdir] [-L logfile]
	   -A addr -P port

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvsearch> provides a raw interface to
the searching of a nextrieve text index.

A search query in XML form is presented on standard input, and a
search is made either to a remote nextrieve search server (using
the C<-A> and C<-P> options), or to a text index that can be directly
read.
A result list is returned on standard output in XML form.

A definition of what the XML for a query looks like
can be found ###ntvqueryxml###.

A definition of what the XML for the result list looks like
can be found ###ntvhitlistxml###.

The text index to search is defined by a I<resource file>, specified with
the B<NTV_RESOURCE> environment variable, or by using the C<-R> option.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item C<-R> resfile

I<resfile> specifies the location of the I<resource file> describing the
text index to be searched.  This overrides any NTV_RESOURCE environment
variable that is set.

A resource file specification is necessary when a text index is being
read directly by B<ntvsearch>.  It is not required when B<ntvsearch> is
being used in "client mode", with the C<-A> and C<-P> options.

=item B<-I> indexdir

The I<indexdir> specified overrides any I<indexdir> line in the resource
file.  I<indexdir> specifies the directory where the *.ntv files are
located that comprise
the text index.  This option is useful where there are
several physical text indexes using the same schema defined in a single
resource file.

=item B<-L> logfile

I<logfile> explicitly overrides any I<logfile> line in a resource file
and any NTV_ERRORLOG environment variable.

=item C<-A> address, C<-P> port

Specify the machine address and port to connect to when operating as a client.

=item B<-?>

Write extended help information to standard output and exit.

=item B<-V>

Write version information to standard output and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Some examples?

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

A list of diagnostics should go here.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item NTV_RESOURCE

The location of the resource file describing the text index.
Can be overridden by the C<-R> option, and is not necessary when
running in "client mode" (ie, with the C<-A> and C<-P> options).

=item NTV_ERRORLOG

Where to log error messages.
Overridden by a B<logfile> line in the resource file,
and B<-L> option.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

=head1 BUGS

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvindex(1), ntvsearchd(1), ntvqueryxml(5), ntvhitlistxml(5).
