
=head1 NAME

ntvsearchd - NexTrieve search server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 ntvsearchd [-?] [-V]
            [-R resfile] [-I indexdir] [-L logfile]
	    -A addr -P port
	    [-u user] [-l listen-depth]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ntvsearchd> implements a nextrieve search server.

Once started, it will listen on the nominated address/port pair
for incoming connections.

It will accept a stream of incoming queries in XML form from each
connection, and respond with results ("hitlists") in XML form.

A definition of what the XML for a query looks like
can be found ###ntvqueryxml###.

A definition of what the XML for the result list looks like
can be found ###ntvhitlistxml###.

The text index to search is defined by a I<resource file>, specified with
the B<NTV_RESOURCE> environment variable, or by using the B<-R> option.

A definition of what the resource file contains can be found
###ntvresourcefile###.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-R> resfile

I<resfile> specifies the location of the I<resource file> describing the
text index to be searched.  This overrides any NTV_RESOURCE environment
variable that is set.

=item B<-I> indexdir

The I<indexdir> specified overrides any I<indexdir> line in the resource
file.  I<indexdir> specifies the directory where the *.ntv files are
located that comprise
the text index.  This option is useful where there are
several physical text indexes using the same schema defined in a single
resource file.

=item B<-L> logfile

I<logfile> explicitly overrides any I<logfile> line in a resource file
and any NTV_ERRORLOG environment variable.

=item B<-A> address, B<-P> port

Specify the machine address and port to listen on for incoming connections.

=item B<-?>

Write extended help information to standard output and exit.

=item B<-V>

Write version information to standard output and exit.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

A list of diagnostics should go here.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item NTV_RESOURCE

The location of the resource file describing the text index.
Can be overridden by the B<-R> option.

=item NTV_ERRORLOG

Where to log error messages.
Overridden by a B<logfile> line in the resource file,
and B<-L> option.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

=head1 BUGS

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

=head1 SEE ALSO

    ntvindex(1), ntvsearch(1), ntvqueryxml(5), ntvhitlistxml(5).
